# CS-255_System_Analysis_and_Design_Final_Project
Final project for CS-255: Systems Analysis and Design 

## Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
DriverPass was a client requesting for a web app to be built which provides student drivers with driving instructions and practice exams for DMV tests. They requested a web app which would allow students to purchase three different kinds of packages each offering different tiers of benefits. The students could then schedule in-person driving appointments with driving instructors and access the online practice material through the website. The driving instructors could log into the app to view their schedule with students.
## What did you do particularly well?
I think I did well analyzing and defining technical requirements for the application. The functional and non-functional requirements of the application were well defined in my business requirements document. Non-functional requirements such as security were thoroughly articulated as purchases are made on this web app requiring that each user's account be as secure as possible. Researching modern best-practices in web security, JSON web tokens were made a requirement, as well as CAPTCHA, secure HTTPS, and multi-factor authentication were established as must-haves for this application. 
## If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
The UML activity diagram I created for scheduling a driving appointment could be improved. I would add additional steps such as check for available appointments and conditional branching for ensuring that the user has the benefits to schedule an appointment. Ensuring that drivers are available and not all booked is an important step in this process as well.
## How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
By reviewing the interview with the client and hearing their vision for the system, I could translate that into technical requirements. Various clarifications were made as the interviewers asked probing questions to the client to help understand the system. Considering the user's needs is important in system design because it provides a clear way to establish functional requirements for the system being built. Creating a user story for each functional requirement of the system is a good way to have a clearly documented idea of how users will interact with the system. The system's capabilities can then be extracted from the user stories by the system designers who have a technical understanding of what it takes to accommodate each user story. 
## How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
The first step to designing a system is to understand the system's purpose and capabilities. This can be accomplished by interviewing users of the system and using various business process re-engineering techniques to analyze deficiencies in the current system or a system that we are recreating in a better way. Documenting these functional, non-functional, and technical requirements helps to communicate the vision for the system so others can understand it and make corrections and improvements. Creating UML diagrams such as class diagrams is good for designing and documenting a static view of the various objects that will be used for the system's implementation. Behavior diagrams such as activity diagrams break the system down to its functions and flow of exeuction in one use-case for the system. Once these steps are complete, any inefficiencies can be ironed out by analyzing the created documentation and a starting point for implementing the system is ready. 
